.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PMPL-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper exit codes (section 7 - miscellaneous)
.TH HYPER-EXIT-CODES 7 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper-exit-codes \- standardized exit codes for automation
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B hyper
CLI uses standardized exit codes to enable precise error handling in
scripts, CI/CD pipelines, and automation workflows. Exit codes are
organized into categories by numeric range.
.SH EXIT CODE CATEGORIES
.SS SUCCESS (0)
.TP
.B 0 \- SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully.
.SS GENERAL ERRORS (1-9)
.TP
.B 1 \- GENERAL_ERROR
General/unspecified error.
.TP
.B 2 \- INVALID_ARGUMENTS
Invalid command line arguments.
.TP
.B 3 \- CONFIG_ERROR
Configuration file error (missing, invalid, or inaccessible).
.TP
.B 4 \- IO_ERROR
IO error (file read/write, network, etc.).
.TP
.B 5 \- CANCELLED
Operation cancelled by user.
.TP
.B 6 \- TIMEOUT
Operation timed out.
.TP
.B 7 \- NOT_IMPLEMENTED
Feature not implemented.
.SS SCAN/ANALYSIS RESULTS (10-19)
.TP
.B 10 \- CRITICAL_FINDINGS
Scan found critical severity findings.
.TP
.B 11 \- HIGH_FINDINGS
Scan found high severity findings.
.TP
.B 12 \- MEDIUM_FINDINGS
Scan found medium severity findings.
.TP
.B 13 \- LOW_FINDINGS
Scan found low severity findings.
.TP
.B 14 \- INFO_FINDINGS
Scan found info level findings only.
.TP
.B 15 \- SCAN_FAILED
Scan failed to complete.
.SS REGISTRY ERRORS (20-29)
.TP
.B 20 \- REGISTRY_CONNECTION_ERROR
Registry connection failed.
.TP
.B 21 \- REGISTRY_AUTH_ERROR
Registry authentication failed.
.TP
.B 22 \- RULESET_NOT_FOUND
Ruleset not found in registry.
.TP
.B 23 \- RULESET_CONFLICT
Ruleset version conflict.
.TP
.B 24 \- RULESET_INVALID
Ruleset validation failed.
.TP
.B 25 \- REGISTRY_RATE_LIMIT
Registry rate limit exceeded.
.SS REPOSITORY ERRORS (30-39)
.TP
.B 30 \- NOT_A_REPO
Not a git repository.
.TP
.B 31 \- REPO_NOT_FOUND
Repository path does not exist.
.TP
.B 32 \- REPO_ACCESS_DENIED
Repository access denied.
.TP
.B 33 \- GIT_ERROR
Git operation failed.
.TP
.B 34 \- REPO_DIRTY
Repository is dirty (uncommitted changes).
.TP
.B 35 \- HOOK_ERROR
Hook installation/execution failed.
.SS FLEET/BOT ERRORS (40-49)
.TP
.B 40 \- BOT_FAILED
Bot execution failed.
.TP
.B 41 \- BOT_NOT_FOUND
Bot not found.
.TP
.B 42 \- FLEET_PARTIAL_FAILURE
Fleet operation partially failed.
.TP
.B 43 \- FLEET_TOTAL_FAILURE
Fleet operation completely failed.
.TP
.B 44 \- BOT_DEPENDENCY_ERROR
Bot dependency error.
.SS BATCH OPERATION RESULTS (50-59)
.TP
.B 50 \- PARTIAL_FAILURE
Batch operation partially succeeded (some failures).
.TP
.B 51 \- TOTAL_FAILURE
Batch operation completely failed (all items failed).
.TP
.B 52 \- NO_ITEMS
No items to process.
.SS INTERNAL ERRORS (100+)
.TP
.B 100 \- INTERNAL_ERROR
Internal error (panic, unexpected state).
.SH SHELL SCRIPTING
Example bash script using exit codes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/bash
hyper scan ./repo
code=$?

case $code in
    0)  echo "No issues found" ;;
    10) echo "CRITICAL: Immediate action required" ;;
    11) echo "HIGH: Should be fixed soon" ;;
    12) echo "MEDIUM: Schedule for fix" ;;
    13) echo "LOW: Fix when convenient" ;;
    14) echo "INFO: Informational only" ;;
    15) echo "Scan failed" ;;
    *)  echo "Error code: $code" ;;
esac
.fi
.RE
.SH CI/CD INTEGRATION
.SS GitHub Actions
.PP
.RS
.nf
- name: Scan repository
  id: scan
  run: hyper scan . --fail-on high
  continue-on-error: true

- name: Handle findings
  if: steps.scan.outcome == 'failure'
  run: |
    if [ "${{ steps.scan.outputs.exit-code }}" -eq 10 ]; then
      echo "::error::Critical findings detected"
      exit 1
    fi
.fi
.RE
.SS GitLab CI
.PP
.RS
.nf
scan:
  script:
    - hyper scan . --fail-on high || EXIT_CODE=$?
    - |
      if [ "$EXIT_CODE" -ge 10 ] && [ "$EXIT_CODE" -le 14 ]; then
        echo "Findings detected at severity level $EXIT_CODE"
      fi
  allow_failure:
    exit_codes:
      - 12
      - 13
      - 14
.fi
.RE
.SH PROGRAMMATIC ACCESS
Get exit code description programmatically:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper --help-exit-codes
hyper --explain-exit-code 10
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper (1),
.BR hyper\-scan (1),
.BR hyper\-batch (1)
