.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PLMP-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper-search
.TH HYPER-SEARCH 1 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper-search \- search the ruleset registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyper search
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIQUERY\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hyper search
queries the ruleset registry by various criteria including effect type,
target language, category, tags, and author.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I QUERY
Free-text search query. Searches names and descriptions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-effect =\fIEFFECT\fR
Filter by effect type: \fBpreventive\fR, \fBcurative\fR, \fBdiagnostic\fR.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-language =\fILANG\fR
Filter by target language (e.g., rust, javascript, haskell).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-category =\fICATEGORY\fR
Filter by category: \fBsecurity\fR, \fBquality\fR, \fBworkflows\fR, etc.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-tag =\fITAG\fR
Filter by tag. Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-author =\fIAUTHOR\fR
Filter by author username.
.TP
.BR \-\-sort =\fIFIELD\fR
Sort by: \fBname\fR, \fBdownloads\fR, \fBupdated\fR, \fBcreated\fR, \fBrating\fR.
Default is \fBdownloads\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-order =\fIORDER\fR
Sort order: \fBasc\fR or \fBdesc\fR. Default is \fBdesc\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-limit =\fIN\fR
Maximum number of results. Default is 20.
.TP
.BR \-\-offset =\fIN\fR
Skip first N results (for pagination).
.TP
.BR \-\-registry =\fIURL\fR
Override the default registry URL.
.SH OUTPUT
By default, displays a table with:
.IP \(bu 2
Ruleset name and author
.IP \(bu 2
Description (truncated)
.IP \(bu 2
Version and download count
.IP \(bu 2
Categories and tags
.PP
Use \fB\-\-output json\fR for machine-readable output.
.SH EXAMPLES
Search for security rulesets:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper search --category security
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for Rust preventive rules:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper search --language rust --effect preventive
.fi
.RE
.PP
Free-text search:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper search "github actions"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Most downloaded rulesets:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper search --sort downloads --limit 10
.fi
.RE
.PP
JSON output for scripting:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper search --language rust --output json | jq '.[].name'
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper (1),
.BR hyper\-deposit (1),
.BR hyper\-withdraw (1)
