.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PMPL-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper-withdraw
.TH HYPER-WITHDRAW 1 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper-withdraw \- pull a ruleset from the registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyper withdraw
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.I RULESET
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hyper withdraw
downloads a ruleset from the registry for local use. Includes signature
verification and version pinning for reproducibility.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I RULESET
Ruleset name or fully-qualified name (author/name).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version =\fIVERSION\fR
Specific version to download. Default is latest.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output =\fIPATH\fR
Output directory. Default is current directory.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-file\-format =\fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBhs\fR (Haskell source), \fBcompiled\fR, \fBjson\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-only
Display ruleset information without downloading.
.TP
.BR \-\-include\-content
Include full ruleset content in \fB\-\-show\-only\fR output.
.TP
.BR \-\-registry =\fIURL\fR
Override the default registry URL.
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Overwrite existing files without prompting.
.TP
.BR \-\-verify\-signature
Verify the ruleset signature (default: enabled).
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-verify
Skip signature verification (not recommended).
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Ruleset downloaded successfully.
.TP
.B 20
Registry connection error.
.TP
.B 21
Registry authentication error.
.TP
.B 22
Ruleset not found.
.SH EXAMPLES
Download latest version:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper withdraw hyperpolymath/rust-security
.fi
.RE
.PP
Download specific version:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper withdraw rust-security --version 1.2.0
.fi
.RE
.PP
View ruleset info:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper withdraw rust-security --show-only
.fi
.RE
.PP
Download to specific directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper withdraw rust-security -o ./rules/
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper (1),
.BR hyper\-deposit (1),
.BR hyper\-search (1)
