.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PLMP-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper - cicd-hyper-a CLI
.TH HYPER 1 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper \- Neurosymbolic CI/CD intelligence platform CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyper
[\fB\-\-output\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR|\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-\-quiet\fR|\fB\-q\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-color\fR]
[\fB\-\-machine\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hyper
is the command-line interface for the CI/CD Hyper-A neurosymbolic intelligence
platform. It provides tools for scanning repositories, managing bot fleets,
and interacting with the ruleset registry.
.PP
The platform combines neural learning for pattern recognition with symbolic
reasoning (Logtalk/Prolog) for fast, deterministic rule execution.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output =\fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBjson\fR, \fByaml\fR, \fBtable\fR, or \fBplain\fR.
Default is \fBtable\fR for interactive use.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config =\fIPATH\fR
Path to configuration file. Defaults to \fB~/.config/hyper/config.toml\fR
or \fB.hyper.toml\fR in the current directory.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output. Can be specified multiple times for increased verbosity.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-essential output. Only errors and requested data are shown.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output. Automatically set when stdout is not a TTY.
.TP
.B \-\-machine
Enable strict machine-readable output mode. Implies \fB\-\-no\-color\fR,
disables progress indicators, and outputs only structured data.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan
Scan a repository for CI/CD issues, security vulnerabilities, and
configuration problems. See \fBhyper\-scan\fR(1).
.TP
.B fleet
Manage and run bot fleets for automated repository maintenance.
See \fBhyper\-fleet\fR(1).
.TP
.B deposit
Submit a ruleset to the registry. Requires verification and signing.
See \fBhyper\-deposit\fR(1).
.TP
.B withdraw
Pull a ruleset from the registry for local use.
See \fBhyper\-withdraw\fR(1).
.TP
.B search
Search the ruleset registry by various criteria.
See \fBhyper\-search\fR(1).
.TP
.B hooks
Install, manage, and configure Git hooks for repositories.
See \fBhyper\-hooks\fR(1).
.TP
.B batch
Process multiple repositories in batch mode for automation.
See \fBhyper\-batch\fR(1).
.TP
.B completions
Generate shell completion scripts.
See \fBhyper\-completions\fR(1).
.TP
.B config
View and modify configuration settings.
.TP
.B version
Display version and build information.
.SH EXIT CODES
.B hyper
uses standardized exit codes for automation:
.TP
.B 0
Success - operation completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1\-9
General errors (invalid arguments, config errors, IO errors, etc.).
.TP
.B 10\-19
Scan/analysis results (findings at various severity levels).
.TP
.B 20\-29
Registry errors (connection, authentication, not found).
.TP
.B 30\-39
Repository errors (not a git repo, access denied, dirty state).
.TP
.B 40\-49
Fleet/bot errors (execution failures, dependencies).
.TP
.B 50\-59
Batch operation results (partial failures, no items).
.TP
.B 100+
Internal errors (panics, unexpected state).
.PP
See \fBhyper\-exit\-codes\fR(7) for the complete list.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HYPER_CONFIG
Override the default configuration file path.
.TP
.B HYPER_REGISTRY_URL
Override the default registry URL.
.TP
.B HYPER_NO_COLOR
Disable colored output (equivalent to \fB\-\-no\-color\fR).
.TP
.B HYPER_LOG_LEVEL
Set logging level: \fBerror\fR, \fBwarn\fR, \fBinfo\fR, \fBdebug\fR, \fBtrace\fR.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Standard environment variable to disable colors (respected).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/hyper/config.toml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I .hyper.toml
Project-level configuration file (in repository root).
.TP
.I ~/.cache/hyper/
Cache directory for registry data and compiled rules.
.SH EXAMPLES
Scan the current repository:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan .
.fi
.RE
.PP
Scan with JSON output for piping:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan . --output json | jq '.findings[]'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Batch scan multiple repositories:
.PP
.RS
.nf
find ~/repos -maxdepth 1 -type d | hyper batch scan -
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run bots on a repository:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper fleet run ./my-repo --bots glambot,finishing-bot
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search for Rust security rulesets:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper search --language rust --category security
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install completions for bash:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper completions bash >> ~/.bashrc
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper\-scan (1),
.BR hyper\-fleet (1),
.BR hyper\-deposit (1),
.BR hyper\-withdraw (1),
.BR hyper\-search (1),
.BR hyper\-hooks (1),
.BR hyper\-batch (1),
.BR hyper\-completions (1),
.BR hyper\-exit\-codes (7)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/hyperpolymath/cicd-hyper-a/issues
.SH AUTHORS
Hyperpolymath <hyperpolymath@proton.me>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024-2026 Hyperpolymath.
Licensed under PLMP-1.0-or-later (Palimpsest License).
