.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PLMP-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper-scan
.TH HYPER-SCAN 1 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper-scan \- scan repositories for CI/CD issues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyper scan
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hyper scan
analyzes a repository for CI/CD configuration issues, security vulnerabilities,
workflow problems, and policy violations. It applies rulesets from the registry
and reports findings with severity levels.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I PATH
Path to the repository to scan. Defaults to the current directory.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-min\-severity =\fISEVERITY\fR
Minimum severity level to report: \fBcritical\fR, \fBhigh\fR, \fBmedium\fR,
\fBlow\fR, or \fBinfo\fR. Default is \fBlow\fR.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-categories =\fICATEGORY\fR[,...]
Filter by categories: \fBsecurity\fR, \fBworkflows\fR, \fBdependencies\fR,
\fBconfiguration\fR, \fBquality\fR, \fBpolicy\fR. Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fixable\-only
Only show issues that can be auto-fixed.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-detailed
Show detailed information including suggested fixes and affected files.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-report\-file =\fIPATH\fR
Write report to file instead of stdout. Format inferred from extension.
.TP
.BR \-\-skip =\fIPATTERN\fR[,...]
Skip files or directories matching patterns. Supports glob syntax.
.TP
.BR \-\-include\-hidden
Include hidden files and directories in the scan.
.TP
.BR \-\-rulesets =\fIRULESET\fR[,...]
Specific rulesets to apply. Default uses configured rulesets.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-cache
Disable ruleset caching and fetch fresh from registry.
.TP
.BR \-\-fail\-on =\fISEVERITY\fR
Exit with non-zero status if findings at or above this severity are found.
Default is \fBhigh\fR.
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.TP
.B table
Human-readable table format (default for TTY).
.TP
.B json
JSON object with findings array and metadata.
.TP
.B yaml
YAML format, compatible with many CI/CD tools.
.TP
.B plain
Plain text, one finding per line.
.TP
.B sarif
SARIF format for integration with code scanning tools.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
No findings at or above the \fB\-\-fail\-on\fR severity level.
.TP
.B 10
Critical severity findings detected.
.TP
.B 11
High severity findings detected.
.TP
.B 12
Medium severity findings detected.
.TP
.B 13
Low severity findings detected.
.TP
.B 14
Info level findings only.
.TP
.B 15
Scan failed to complete.
.SH EXAMPLES
Scan current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan
.fi
.RE
.PP
Scan with minimum severity:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan ./repo --min-severity high
.fi
.RE
.PP
Scan security issues only, JSON output:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan ./repo -C security --output json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Scan and fail on any findings:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan ./repo --fail-on info
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate SARIF report for GitHub:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper scan ./repo --output sarif -r scan-results.sarif
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper (1),
.BR hyper\-batch (1),
.BR hyper\-exit\-codes (7)
