.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PMPL-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper-fleet
.TH HYPER-FLEET 1 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper-fleet \- manage and run bot fleets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyper fleet
.I SUBCOMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hyper fleet
manages bot fleets for automated repository maintenance. Bots perform
specialized tasks like presentation quality checks (glambot), release
readiness verification (finishing-bot), and more.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Execute bots on a repository.
.TP
.B list
List available bots and their capabilities.
.TP
.B status
Show status of running bot operations.
.TP
.B stop
Stop running bot operations.
.SS hyper fleet run
.B hyper fleet run
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.I PATH
.TP
.I PATH
Path to the repository to process.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bots =\fIBOT\fR[,...]
Bots to run. Default runs all applicable bots.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exclude =\fIBOT\fR[,...]
Bots to exclude from the run.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be done without making changes.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-parallel =\fIN\fR
Number of parallel bot executions. Default is 4.
.TP
.BR \-\-continue\-on\-error
Continue processing if a bot fails.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout =\fISECONDS\fR
Timeout for each bot operation. Default is 300 (5 minutes).
.TP
.BR \-\-auto\-fix
Automatically apply fixes suggested by bots.
.SS hyper fleet list
.B hyper fleet list
[\fB\-\-category\fR \fICATEGORY\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
.PP
List available bots with their descriptions and capabilities.
.SS hyper fleet status
.B hyper fleet status
[\fB\-\-watch\fR]
.PP
Show status of running bot operations. Use \fB\-\-watch\fR for live updates.
.SS hyper fleet stop
.B hyper fleet stop
[\fB\-\-all\fR | \fIJOB_ID\fR]
.PP
Stop a specific job by ID or all running jobs with \fB\-\-all\fR.
.SH AVAILABLE BOTS
.TP
.B glambot
Presentation quality checker. Validates README, documentation,
badges, and visual consistency.
.TP
.B finishing-bot
Release readiness analyzer. Checks CHANGELOG, version consistency,
license compliance, and release artifacts.
.TP
.B echidnabot
Mathematical verification. Validates formal proofs and specifications.
.TP
.B seambot
Integration testing. Runs comprehensive integration test suites.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All bots completed successfully.
.TP
.B 40
Bot execution failed.
.TP
.B 41
Bot not found.
.TP
.B 42
Fleet operation partially failed (some bots succeeded).
.TP
.B 43
Fleet operation completely failed (all bots failed).
.TP
.B 44
Bot dependency error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run all bots on a repository:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper fleet run ./my-repo
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run specific bots:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper fleet run ./my-repo --bots glambot,finishing-bot
.fi
.RE
.PP
Dry run with verbose output:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper fleet run ./my-repo --dry-run --verbose
.fi
.RE
.PP
List available bots:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper fleet list
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper (1),
.BR hyper\-scan (1),
.BR hyper\-batch (1)
