.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: PLMP-1.0-or-later
.\" Man page for hyper-hooks
.TH HYPER-HOOKS 1 "January 2026" "hyper 0.1.0" "CI/CD Hyper-A Manual"
.SH NAME
hyper-hooks \- manage Git hooks for repositories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyper hooks
.I SUBCOMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hyper hooks
installs and manages Git hooks that integrate with the CI/CD Hyper-A
platform. Hooks can run preventive rules, validate commits, and
enforce policies automatically.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B install
Install hooks in a repository.
.TP
.B remove
Remove installed hooks.
.TP
.B list
List installed hooks.
.TP
.B status
Show hook status and configuration.
.TP
.B update
Update hooks to latest version.
.SS hyper hooks install
.B hyper hooks install
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIPATH\fR]
.TP
.I PATH
Repository path. Defaults to current directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-hooks =\fIHOOK\fR[,...]
Specific hooks to install: \fBpre-commit\fR, \fBpre-push\fR,
\fBcommit-msg\fR, \fBprepare-commit-msg\fR, \fBpost-receive\fR.
Default installs all applicable hooks.
.TP
.BR \-\-rulesets =\fIRULESET\fR[,...]
Rulesets to apply via hooks.
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Overwrite existing hooks.
.TP
.BR \-\-backup
Backup existing hooks before overwriting.
.TP
.BR \-\-cache\-ttl =\fISECONDS\fR
Cache TTL for ruleset lookups. Default is 3600 (1 hour).
.SS hyper hooks remove
.B hyper hooks remove
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIPATH\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-hooks =\fIHOOK\fR[,...]
Specific hooks to remove. Default removes all hyper hooks.
.TP
.BR \-\-restore
Restore backed-up hooks if available.
.SS hyper hooks list
.B hyper hooks list
[\fIPATH\fR]
.PP
List installed hooks and their configurations.
.SS hyper hooks status
.B hyper hooks status
[\fIPATH\fR]
.PP
Show detailed status including:
.IP \(bu 2
Installed hooks
.IP \(bu 2
Active rulesets
.IP \(bu 2
Last execution times
.IP \(bu 2
Cache status
.SS hyper hooks update
.B hyper hooks update
[\fIPATH\fR]
.PP
Update hooks to the latest version and refresh cached rulesets.
.SH HOOK TYPES
.TP
.B pre-commit
Runs before commit. Used for preventive rules (formatting,
secret detection, policy enforcement).
.TP
.B pre-push
Runs before push. Used for validation (tests, signature checks,
breaking changes).
.TP
.B commit-msg
Validates commit messages against conventions.
.TP
.B prepare-commit-msg
Prepares commit message templates.
.TP
.B post-receive
Runs on server after receive. Used for CI triggers and notifications.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Hook operation successful.
.TP
.B 35
Hook installation/execution failed.
.TP
.B 30
Not a git repository.
.SH EXAMPLES
Install all hooks:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper hooks install
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install specific hooks with rulesets:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper hooks install --hooks pre-commit,pre-push \\
  --rulesets hyperpolymath/security-baseline
.fi
.RE
.PP
List installed hooks:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper hooks list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remove and restore:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hyper hooks install --backup
hyper hooks remove --restore
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hyper (1),
.BR hyper\-scan (1),
.BR githooks (5)
